---
title: "R-ProjNet: an optimal rotated-projection neural network for wood segmentation from point clouds"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2022-12-01-RSL
excerpt: 'Xu Sheng, Li Xin, Yang Hongxin, and Xu Shanshan(*)'
date: 2022-12-01
venue: 'Remote Sensing Letters'
paperurl: 'https://www.tandfonline.com/doi/full/10.1080/2150704X.2022.2163203'
citation: 'Xu Sheng, Li Xin, Yang Hongxin, and Xu Shanshan(*). &quot;R-ProjNet: an optimal rotated-projection neural network for wood segmentation from point clouds.&quot; <i>Remote Sensing Letters.</i> vol. 14(1), pp.60-69, 2023, doi: 10.1080/2150704X.2022.2163203.'


---
This work aims to provide a deep learning framework to segment woods from tree point clouds. We develop a novel preprocessing layer before the classical sampling and convolution structure called the projection layer to organize 3D point clouds into 2D points. Input data are transformed into projection data along axis and planes for the subsequent convolution process, which helps decrease the complexity of networks. In order to obtain optimal and effective projection data for capturing local features, we formulate the 2D transformation in the learning process using two learnable angle parameters. The projection map is updated in the learning process for capturing geometric structure information, which plays an important role in wood point segmentation. Experiments show that we have achieved the loss and misclassification error of 0.41% and 8%, respectively, on wood points extraction from handheld laser scanning data. Besides, we also achieve the correctness, completeness and F
-score of 90.4%, 91.5% and 0.91, respectively, in a public vehicle laser scanning dataset.

[Download paper here](http://lostagex.github.io/files/2020-12-1-RSL.pdf)

Recommended citation: 'S. Xu, X. Li, H. Yang and S. Xu(*). &quot;R-ProjNet: an optimal rotated-projection neural network for wood segmentation from point clouds.&quot; <i>Remote Sensing Letters.</i> vol. 14(`), pp.60-69, 2023.'



